History App
The Purpose of the History App
The purpose of this app is to inspire and teach young minds on a few important historical figures that walked on this earth. They did not only walk on this earth they somehow shaped it or impacted it in some sort of way that changed a lot of people’s minds and how they view things. History is an important lesson which I feel that everybody should be familiar with because some historians died for people to have a better tomorrow, so this is a way of honouring some of these historians who were heroes to their nations. It also to get young people up to date with their history knowledge using what they love most which is technology. User-friendly technology that people can install in their phones because it’s android application that will simply teach young minds on their history and can be used in class so that history lessons are more engaging and fun through technology.
Detailed Description of The Application
User Interface (UI) Design: I used a clear font colour and bold text. Large buttons were also used for people with eye problems to be able see my interface without having any issues. I also included a background image that engages more with the and this a direct link to where I found the image history - Search Images (bing.com). The application interface is very easy to use and understand even a 10-year-old could run it.
Information Structure: I structured the application in way that will be easy for anyone to use. You type a number on the enter number text and it output the result on the bottom making it easy for you to understand and if you type in invalid text a text will appear on the bottom telling you that you have entered invalid text and that you should trying ages between 20 to 100. There is a clear button to assist you on clearing and text you might type and now want to remove it. There also a search button, you can click on to generate a response that will cater to the number you have typed out.
Utilization of GitHub and GitHub Action
I used GitHub to share my application and all my applications files on GitHub. GitHub is good for version control allowing me to track changes on the application and it good for back up if anything happens in case, I lose my code I can still retrieve it on GitHub. Can track bugs and errors. It professional and user-friendly and it also showcase my work in a professional manner and this application that have done need provision and GitHub allows me to. 
Functionality of the Application
I used GeeksforGeeks website to code and an if statemen that will generate a different answer for an age you typed out. I only used 10 people and these are the ten people and their age: (Nelson Mandela 95, Alexander The Great 32,Diego Maradona 60,Walter Sisulu 91, Chris Hani 51, Shaka Zulu 41, Muhmmad al-Gaddafi 69, Senzangakhona 54, Steve Biko 30) if you type in any age that’s not on the one on the brackets in will that say you just inserted a invalid age. The application functions properly and is every accessible on your android device Buttons are bold enough for people to read and big enough to click this url takes you to a video that will show you how the application runs.
 
The screenshot above shows what the application will look like after typing out an age on the enter age text view. After the computer or application successfully process, your application a small massage will pop up below giving a few paragraphs that will tell you which historian has the same age as the one you typed out and he or she’s name will also appear. As you can see in the picture above, I used a white font colour on because the black font made me feel unprofessional and it also looked like I did not put any work into it which is not the case. Added a background picture that has that eustatically old appeal to make sure the person who is going to run the application feels like he’s looking at a history book that is electronic and you can click buttons on it instead of flipping pages.
 
The above image showcase what will appear after invalid text has been typed on the text view and a message will appear on the bottom. The massage is a very brief message explaining that no historian was found with that age. When typing error or making a mistake the user can use clear button to clear out unwanted text that user might be typed out by mistake. It is user friendly and works perfectly fine. The app name is also written in bold on top.

